docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. TorchData documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Jan 20 09:56:06 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

TorchData
######################################
This library is part of the `PyTorch
<http://pytorch.org/>`_ project. PyTorch is an open source
machine learning framework.

:mod:`torchdata` is a prototype library of common modular data loading primitives for
easily constructing flexible and performant data pipelines.

Features described in this documentation are classified by release status:

  *Stable:*  These features will be maintained long-term and there should generally
  be no major performance limitations or gaps in documentation.
  We also expect to maintain backwards compatibility (although
  breaking changes can happen and notice will be given one release ahead
  of time).

  *Beta:*  Features are tagged as Beta because the API may change based on
  user feedback, because the performance needs to improve, or because
  coverage across operators is not yet complete. For Beta features, we are
  committing to seeing the feature through to the Stable classification.
  We are not, however, committing to backwards compatibility.

  *Prototype:*  These features are typically not available as part of
  binary distributions like PyPI or Conda, except sometimes behind run-time
  flags, and are at an early stage for feedback and testing.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: API Reference:

   torchdata.datapipes.iter.rst
   torchdata.datapipes.map.rst
   torchdata.datapipes.utils.rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Tutorial and Examples:

   tutorial.rst
   examples.rst


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: PyTorch Libraries

   PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/docs>
   torchaudio <https://pytorch.org/audio>
   torchtext <https://pytorch.org/text>
   torchvision <https://pytorch.org/vision>
   TorchElastic <https://pytorch.org/elastic/>
   TorchServe <https://pytorch.org/serve>
   PyTorch on XLA Devices <http://pytorch.org/xla/>


Indices
==================

* :ref:`genindex`

Commit message:

Fix doc from prototype to beta (#798)
Summary:
Changing words from prototype to beta in our online doc.

Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/pytorch/data/pull/798

Reviewed By: NivekT

Differential Revision: D39930207

Pulled By: ejguan

fbshipit-source-id: 4ffe76fb81e555fd5766fa429be2dfd756e9e45d

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. TorchData documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Jan 20 09:56:06 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

TorchData
######################################
This library is part of the `PyTorch
<http://pytorch.org/>`_ project. PyTorch is an open source
machine learning framework.

:mod:`torchdata` is a Beta library of common modular data loading primitives for
easily constructing flexible and performant data pipelines. And, there are
a few features still in prototype stage.

Features described in this documentation are classified by release status:

  *Stable:*  These features will be maintained long-term and there should generally
  be no major performance limitations or gaps in documentation.
  We also expect to maintain backwards compatibility (although
  breaking changes can happen and notice will be given one release ahead
  of time).

  *Beta:*  Features are tagged as Beta because the API may change based on
  user feedback, because the performance needs to improve, or because
  coverage across operators is not yet complete. For Beta features, we are
  committing to seeing the feature through to the Stable classification.
  We are not, however, committing to backwards compatibility.

  *Prototype:*  These features are typically not available as part of
  binary distributions like PyPI or Conda, except sometimes behind run-time
  flags, and are at an early stage for feedback and testing.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: API Reference:

   torchdata.datapipes.iter.rst
   torchdata.datapipes.map.rst
   torchdata.datapipes.utils.rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Tutorial and Examples:

   tutorial.rst
   examples.rst


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: PyTorch Libraries

   PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/docs>
   torchaudio <https://pytorch.org/audio>
   torchtext <https://pytorch.org/text>
   torchvision <https://pytorch.org/vision>
   TorchElastic <https://pytorch.org/elastic/>
   TorchServe <https://pytorch.org/serve>
   PyTorch on XLA Devices <http://pytorch.org/xla/>


Indices
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
