docs/source/torchdata.datapipes.utils.rst, before:

Utility Functions
===========================

File Object and Stream Utility
-------------------------------------

.. currentmodule:: torchdata.datapipes.utils

.. autosummary::
    :nosignatures:
    :toctree: generated/
    :template: datapipe.rst

    StreamWrapper
    to_graph


DataLoader
-------------------------------------

For documentation related to DataLoader, please refer to the
``torch.utils.data`` `documentation <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html>`_. Or, more specifically, the
`DataLoader API section <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader>`_.

DataLoader v2 is currently in development. You should see an update here by mid-2022.

Sampler
-------------------------------------

For documentation related to Sampler, please refer to the
``torch.utils.data``
`documentation on Data Loading order <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#data-loading-order-and-sampler>`_.
The Sampler API section is `here <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.Sampler>`_.

Commit message:

Improve graph visualization documentation (#504) (#508)
Summary:
Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/pytorch/data/pull/504

Improve docstring, added an example, and expanded documentation to have a template for utility functions (not just class)

If there isn't strong objection, I plan to cherry-pick this and the graph visualization PR to release 0.4.0 (cc: ejguan).

Test Plan: Imported from OSS

Reviewed By: ejguan

Differential Revision: D37040783

Pulled By: NivekT

fbshipit-source-id: 80b9569ad5a26b5a03e02d38001f88ec0599bc4b

docs/source/torchdata.datapipes.utils.rst, after:

Utility Functions
===========================

..
    Comment: the next section will become "DataPipe Graph Visualization and Linter" when linter is added.

DataPipe Graph Visualization
-------------------------------------
.. currentmodule:: torchdata.datapipes.utils

.. autosummary::
    :nosignatures:
    :toctree: generated/
    :template: function.rst

    to_graph


File Object and Stream Utility
-------------------------------------

.. currentmodule:: torchdata.datapipes.utils

.. autosummary::
    :nosignatures:
    :toctree: generated/
    :template: datapipe.rst

    StreamWrapper


DataLoader
-------------------------------------

For documentation related to DataLoader, please refer to the
``torch.utils.data`` `documentation <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html>`_. Or, more specifically, the
`DataLoader API section <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader>`_.

DataLoader v2 is currently in development. You should see an update here by mid-2022.

Sampler
-------------------------------------

For documentation related to Sampler, please refer to the
``torch.utils.data``
`documentation on Data Loading order <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#data-loading-order-and-sampler>`_.
The Sampler API section is `here <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.Sampler>`_.
